PRIYANKA P (ID:24007)
SOURCE: THE C PROGRAMMING LANGUAGE
AUTHOR: DENNIM.M.RITCHIE & BRIAN.W.KERNIGHAN
DATE: 12.2.25

CHAPTER 1:
main(): execution begins from here 
Without arguments:
int main(){
return 0;
}
It is the standard form - ISO C99
Return 0 - normal or successful termination
Return (non zero) - erroneous termination

With arguments: int main(int argc, char * argv[])

Main calls printf function to print seq of characters
Printf is a standard library function. It is not a part of c language. Should include <stdio.h> library
 
Implicit Declaration: occurs when a fn or variable is used without being declared first.

Comment: Used to describe the code or naming (/* */).

Range of int and float depends on machine

Indendation: emphasizes logical structure of program

PROBLEM OF TRUNCATION:
Eg: fahrenheit to celsius conversion:
c=(5/9)*(f-32);
(5/9) truncated to zero hence c=0;

2 fixes:
Use floating point to get more accuracy.
c and f in float type
c=(5.0/9.0)*(f-32.0)
Learnt how to do right justification:
Eg %3d ,%6.1f

Define: defines a symbolic constant
#define name replacement list

Difference between putchar and printf: 
Printf returns number of characters in the formatted string whereas putchar returns single character.
Solved exercise problems:
Copying sentence, char count, word count, line count.
Exercise 1-11. How would you test the word count program? What kinds of input are most likely to uncover bugs if there are any? 
Empty, single word, multiple word along with tab, backspaces newlines, white spaces, etc.

Arrays: 
Solved histogram problem

Functions: 
It should be defined. If we are using the fn before definition it should be declared.
Declaration- function prototype.

Arguments :
call by value:
a copy of the actual parameter is passed to the function. Changes made inside the function do not affect the original variable.
Call by reference:
the actual memory address (pointer) of the variable is passed, so changes affect the original variable.

Storage classes:
Auto Variable: Inside a function. Default value is garbage value. Cant be accessed outside function.

Extern variable: global access. Default value is zero. Can be accessed throughout the program. But the variable can be changed by anybody and also it is not encapsulated.

Also solved exercise problems from chapter 1.


 
